---
layout: post
title:  "Boxes"
categories: [personal]
tags: [theater, emotion, family, attachment, fear]
---
{{ page.date | date: "%m/%d/%Y" }}
 
Saturday I watched my brother perform in a play called "Boxes" at [The Good Theater](https://www.goodtheater.com/ "The Good Theater")  in Portland Maine.  I won't describe the storyline here.  Instead, I want to describe a specific scene that caught me off guard.
 
### Setting the stage
A woman, Sigourney, is observed wearing a necklace with a single princess cut diamond.  She is a main character.  During the play she receives various items in boxes and is asked to perform the task of recording her observations.  Each item she handles conjures an emotional reaction. The princess cut diamond, like the items she observes, has personalized story.  The story of the necklace, and her decision to part ways with it, is my trigger.
 
### The necklace and attachment
When asked about the necklace, Sigourney reveals that it was a gift from her father, who hasn't played a major role in her life.  The scene is emotional, and it is clear that she has an attachment to the necklace.  She goes into detail about the quality and clarity of a princess cut diamond.  The diamond is a symbol of her father's love.  After several twists and turns in the plot, Sigourney is later noticed without the necklace.  She has sold it.  By this point, she has come to the conclusion that the necklace wasn't a symbol of love.  It is a payoff from her father.  He wasn't there for the majority of her life.  The necklace is an apology.
 
### Trigger
So why did this scene trigger me?  Honestly, I do not know.  Is it sympathy?  Perhaps it has to do with a personal relationship in my life?  The sudden thought that perhaps my love has been bought?  Or is it the overall idea that items can be personified and the attachment to them can be so great.  Maybe yet, it is the fear of losing something that I hold dear to myself, and past memories of such losses.  I do not know.  I see patterns, and I can relate.