---
layout: post
title:  "Eight Limbs - Yamas"
categories: [yoga]
tags: [yoga, ashtanga, yamas, covid-19, employment, economy]
---
{{ page.date | date: "%m/%d/%Y" }}
 
Yamas, is the first of eight limbs of ashtanga yoga.  As promised, I said I would deliver one entry for each of the eight limbs and reflect on its meaning in this time of the COVID-19 pandemic.  Today the company I work for furloughed several employees as a response to the changing economy.  So we will see where this goes...
 
### Yamas: self restraint, vows of abstention, control
 
To break down yamas, there are five subcategories to get into.
 
#### Ahimsa: non-violence
 
One should not kill nor harm anything even to save one's life.  To take it a step further, is to consider one's harmful intentions.  To attack someone with words or even thoughts does harm to both the one being attacked, as well as the attacker.
 
Since this pandemic has started, I've noticed my thoughts becoming nagative as I scroll through posts of Facebook users pointing fingers across political lines and generations.  Everyone has an opinion, and there is often a lack of conversation.  I find myself wanting to lash out at everyone who aggressively presents their opinions, regardless of whichever side of the fence they are attacking from.  
 
My path of non-violence is to not lash out.  Self restraint is necessary, as a strong response would likely escalate emotions on both sides.
 
#### Satya: truthfulness, honesty
 
If we cannot see the truth in ourselves then how can we see the truth in the world around us?  Our initial reactions are often emotionally charged.  These types of reactions can often escalate tensions between one another, so the idea is to restrain and control these reactions to get a cleaner view of the reality of the world around us.
 
My initial reactions towards others in these times are often defensive.  Admittedly, I feel I can do better.  To take a step back and recognize that everyone is feeling a bit standoffish is the first step towards addressing the reality of the situation.  Once emotions are behind us, we are better prepared to come away with real solutions to real problems.
 
#### Asteya: non-stealing or non-misappropriating
 
One should not steal.  Diving a little deeper into the problem with stealing, is to recognize the root of the desire to steal.  This comes from a sense of lacking in one's life, and the sense that one is not capable of filling their own void on their own.  Stopping to recognize one's own desire to steal is the first step to an underlying deeper issue.
 
People are hoarding toilet paper and other goods in preparation for this pandemic.  In fact there is no shortage of supplies in this country, but seeing items disappear off the shelf begets the desire to buy more than anyone needs to hunker down for two weeks.
 
For the most part I've never overbought anything when it comes to grocery shopping, however I have noticed that the lack of items on the shelves that I've been accustomed to seeing has resulted in me feeling the need to restrain myself from buying a dozen eggs instead of my regular half dozen.  To recognize that I still have a half loaf of bread at home from the previous week, so that I don't buy the remaining single loaf of bread on the shelf, else risk contributing to the problem.
 
#### Brahmacharya:  chastity, continence
 
Faithfulness in our relationships is important.  Faithfulness in our relationships with ourselves is more so.  The idea is to avoid directing our energy towards our desires that ultimately leave us feeling worse off.  Pause before reaching for the ice cream, what is it that we really need?
 
In times like this it might be easy for me to slip into old habbits of playing video games, watching too much tv, and eating all the desserts.  This is really all I can speak of as a quarantined, single, living alone bachelor.  I have thought that it might be a good time to start playing some old games I played when I was younger, but ultimately I was less happy then.  Had I listened to what I really needed, I would have realized my brain and body were craving for social interaction.  In these times, I've reached out more in phone calls and joined video yoga classes and salsa lessons.  These experiences will continue to reward me.  The former would leave me with a fleeting desire.
 
#### Aparigraha:  without possessions
 
"The things you own own you".  Also, taking action for the reward of doing the action is missing the point.  Taking action for the joy of taking action is the point.  If you enjoy doing something, do it with all your heart.  The reward is not important.
 
One thing that has concerned me the most about the virus is not the death toll, so much as the toll on the economy that the living world will continue to endure after it is over.  Companies will change their ways, laying off workers, reducing pay, requesting bailouts.  Some companies will allow their workers to perform their tasks from home for the first time.  These times will cause a lot of stress.
 
I honestly believe that as we automate more and more of our everyday lives to fill the needs of the masses, there is less need for everyone to perform jobs that are mundane as a means to an end.  People who love what they do will continue to do the things they love even when it is free.  It is their offering to the world.  If people were not worried about paying the bills, I feel most would continue to contribute in meaningful and valuable ways to our civilization, and the world would be better.  The fact that I have this blog is a perfect example of my desire to do what I do outside of my work environment, on my own, purely for continued joy I get out of it.  
 