---
layout: post
title:  "Pandemic This isn’t Pretty"
categories: [personal, reflection]
tags: [covid-19, travel, vacation, yoga, running, frustration]
---
{{ page.date | date: "%m/%d/%Y" }}
 
### COVID-19
 
Since my last post the world has been flipped over.  Today I should be in Arizona exploring a new place with a friend, heart filled after a visit from seeing my dad in New Mexico.  I should be decompressing and preparing for my flight tomorrow.  None of those things are happening.
 
Last Sunday I woke up and did some quick shopping to prepare for travel on Tuesday.  Uncertainty was in the air as the previous week I saw the NBA shut down.  COVID-19 was now in the USA.  As of Sunday morning, I intended to follow through with my plan.  I would go shopping for some travel essentials, and buy my bus ticket.  On my way to the store, my phone starts ringing over my car speakers.  I answer and my dad tells me that Rose is sick and wanted me to be aware since I had asked him if they were concerned at all about my travelling to see them the day before.  I knew I had something to think about, but wasn't prepared to say anything as of that moment.  On to the coffee shop, I would do some thinking.
 
After an hour of delaying any decisions, I called my cousin for advice on how I should handle my flights if I was to delay my trip.  The hero she is, she relieved my anxiety, telling me that we could talk the next morning after she saw off her 7:30 am flight.  My decision was pretty much made, and disappointment set in.  I wouldn't see my family, and I wouldn't visit my friend.  The supplies I picked up for travel would simply be entered into the rotation of my normal routine.  I cancelled my PTO, taking only the following Friday off instead as a consolation prize for what was supposed to be a fun week.
 
### Bitterness
 
I'd like to say that I took all this in stride and remained positive.  This is not the case.  Reading through social media and watching everone in panic mode irritated me.  Most people at my work started working from home full time.  Schools closed.  Events were cancelled.  Restaurants and bars became takeout only, and the words "quarantine" and "social distancing" became common.  Gyms were shut down, and yoga classes were no longer available.  I looked at the statistics, and everything seemed blown out of proportion.  Flashbacks to what I learned my senior year in epidemiology told me that this virus wasn't as bad as many in the past, and the media was bananas.  I found documents supporting my claims, and wanted to refute every position I was hearing.  My life was inconvenienced, and I wasn't having it.
 
### Adjustment
 
The week to come was frustrating.  I insist on taking out from local businesses everyday I go into work.  Someone has to keep things going.  I started calling people.  I started running outside.  Yoga classes became available online, so I started taking those.  Still I found myself scrolling through articles online and social media as people were pointing fingers and making everything political/generational.  I started reading.  I started to identify chores and tasks I could do around my house as my social world looked to be shrinking.  All in all, most of these things were useful.
 
### No End in Sight
 
For all intensive purposes it seems things are going to get worse before they get better.  I'm lucky as I don't have much to worry about personally and I am confident I will come out of this on the other side.  I do wonder though, if there is a better way forward.  Maybe it would be better to be infected as a healthy individual with no connections to those who are most at risk.  To recover in quarantine for two weeks, and then resume normal life.  How many people who suffer from anxiety, depression, addiction, or other ailments are likely to slip backwards into unhealthy habits?  This world may never be the same.
 