---
layout: post
title:  "Eight Limbs - Pranayama"
categories: [yoga]
tags: [yoga, ashtanga, pranayama, covid-19, depression, alchohol]
---
{{ page.date | date: "%m/%d/%Y" }}
 
 
Limb four, pranayama, just breath.  My chest tightens as I prepare to write this.  Today feels different, and I did say my entries would reflect on my current state of being as I navigate these very different times.  Prana is life manifested as energy running through the body.  Breathing comes naturally, so much that we don't even think about it.  However, we have some degree of control over our breath when we take notice.  We can slowen, quicken, or even hold our breath.  Pranayama is about the control over our breath.  When we control our breath, we control our enery, our life force.
 
### Pranayama:  regulation of breath, restraint of breath
 
There are practices in yoga specific to breathing.  You sit.  You breathe.  You focus on one nostril or the other.  You notice the coolness of the air on the inhale.  The warmth on the exhale.  Drawing attention to the breath is a way to focus the mind on the present moment.  Any chatter that is happening in the mind is paused.  At least for the moment the ego is distracted.
 
What if life was limited to the number of breaths we took?  Today was challenging.  I feel like I accomplished nothing at work.  Anxiety was building as one mental hurdle blocked the next.  Changing direction, switching context, anxiety had me.  I need a break.  What is the point of all this?  Undoubtedly if I had noticed my breath as if it were a limited currency, I spent a pretty penny. 
 
I was done at 5pm.  It's Friday.  I have nowhere to go, no means to change the scenery and unwind.  My mind is too busy to consider the next day's plan.  It took me 45 minutes to decide what to eat.  I only wanted food and then to relax.  I didn't want to think about the next day.  I didn't want to solve anyoneelses problems.  I just wanted to unwind.  I turned to writing and alcohol.  My overactive mind has a hard time stopping.  Pranayama may have helped, but by the time I got done writing this, my two drinks did the trick.  I'm not proud, but that is the reality of the situation.
