---
layout: post
title:  "Eight Limbs - Niyamas"
categories: [yoga]
tags: [yoga, ashtanga, niyamas, covid-19, employment, economy]
---
{{ page.date | date: "%m/%d/%Y" }}
 
My second entry of the eight limbs is the **Niyamas** entry.  The previous entry on yamas spoke about the things one shouldn't do, while the entries on the niyamas are geared towards things one should do to live a life of happiness.
 
### Niyamas: fixed observation, rules, precepts established orders
 
Like the yamas, there are subcategories.
 
#### Saucha:  Cleanliness, Purity
 
"No mud, no lotus".  When we begin the process of purifying ourselves, we become intimate with things we'd rather pretend weren't there.  Afterwards have more confidence to take on the world, and more awareness to listen to our bodies for what they really need.
 
In these times of world crisis, I've painted the laundry room in my basement and cleaned out my clutter, as I am forced to spend more time at home.  Removal of these distractions better allows me to notice other parts of my life that still need to be cleaned up.  I've always noticed that I am more ready to enjoy my space after cleaning, which leads to a more rewarding life.
 
#### Santosha: Contentment, Peaceful
 
"The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence" is a phrase that sums this up nicely.  We find ourselves in cycles of happiness and sadness, always tricking ourselves into thinking that once we accomplish the next thing that we can be happy.  The secret to happiness is to understand that it must come from within.
 
I've been mostly unhappy as the freedoms I've enjoyed in everyday life have been slipping away with further and further social restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19.  I admit that I am guilty of thinking I will be happier when all this is over and can resume the lifestyle I had become accustomed to.  Really I should be focussed on the present moments, appreciating the gifts of my current life.
 
#### Tapah:  Fire of Ordeal, A Burning Desire
 
The fiery desire we have to stay disciplined, to achieve one's goals is a nice example of tapah.  By following through, one can create a path of happiness.
 
Even though my schedule has changed I have largely stuck to my weekly regimes of exercising frequently, reading, and writing.  It would be easy to fall back into some old habits of playing video games, not exercising, and not taking care of myself since all non-essential businesses are closed and I am now working from home.  At the other end of this pandemic, I intend to come out a better person.
 
#### Svadhyaya: Study leading to knowledge of the self
 
Its not enough to simply study and gain knowledge, but also to reflect on the knowledge to bring us closer to our true Selves or divine Selves.  
 
Back in 2014 I had one of the more difficult years of my life and I had started to read a number of books that gave me insights on why I was so unhappy.  Many of the things I was reading resonated and I often found myself regurgitating the information to friends and family any opportunity I had.  As annoying as that may have been for others, it was helping me bring those bits of knowledge into my everyday existence, which made me a better person.
 
Sometime in the last couple years, I started to notice that all my books were saying similar things in different ways, and eventually I started to have trouble picking up a book and then reflecting.  I'd like to get back into this, as I do feel like I've backslid a bit in my spiritual gains.
 
#### Ishvara-Pranidhana:  God or Higher Self the target of concentration, Surrender
 
To give into the reality of a situation is not weak at all, and in fact it is empowering.  Setting out with an intention and living with the results allows us to see growth in everyday life.  It may be seen as an offering to the universe, and in doing so changes one's reality.
 
When I started this website, and when I started writing about the eight limbs, I set out with the intention to do so, thinking that perhaps the universe would reward me in some way.  I don't know for a fact that I will finish or keep up with entries, but I intend to and I suspect that my life will ultimately be better for it.  I do gain some satisfaction from making these entries, and researching these topics has set me towards the path that I feel I have strayed from in recent years.  One thing I do know is that it certainly hasn't hurt.
 