---
layout: post
title:  "Numb"
categories: [personal]
tags: [yoga, movies, music, pandemic, relationships, reading, books, running, family]
---
{{ page.date | date: "%m/%d/%Y" }}
 
 
[Numb by Linkin Park](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kXYiU_JCYtU&ab_channel=LinkinPark "Numb Video") is the song playing on my Spotify playlist while I sit at the coffee shop preparing to make my first post in more than a month.  I feel I have been neglecting this passtime of decompression that has served me in the past.  Today I find myself having some free time to hit on some points that I think deserve more attention.  I only have a fixed amount of time so I'm going to rapidly fire them right now.
 
- Ending pandemic, the world is reopening which is great.  I do hope that some of the things that I have grown to appreciate sticks around.  Less traffic, more opportunity for reflection, more connections to nature, more compassion for mental states, and opportunity for growth.  I do think that the pandemic forced me to take an honest look at where I was, my relationships, and my career to position myself to make some changes.
 
- Cinemagic, I wanted to write a post about the closing of this wonderful business that was a part of my life for five years in the early 2000's.   So many great memories, and my understanding is the owner recently passed leading to the closing of 13 theaters in New England.  It's really too bad as they were really nice places.  I imagine the pandemic had a large role in the closing as well.  It was one of my favorite places to get together with friends to watch the biggest movies I always look forward to.
 
- Dad is home.  It happened very quickly.  It'sIts a good thing, but a bit confusing.  In 2014 he moved away and my family experiences seem to have changed quite a bit since then.  I hardly see my youngest brother and until last Saturday, May 8th, it had been almost a year and a half.  I hadn't seen my dad in two years, and now I'm seeing him again at my nephews b-day party, the second time in 8 days.
 
- A new relationship, I find myself in one.  It'sIts nice and it was and was definitely time.  It'sIts early and things are good.  It'sIts hard to monitor and talk about my thoughts and emotions related to this.  That's enough for now.
 
- Career, I feel accomplished and more confident in this than I ever have before.  I've learned a lot of things in the last few years.  There are some frustrating points, but I imagine this is unavoidable.  I work from home a lot more than ever before.  I feel the pandemic has made the shift permanent and think it's worth upgrading some things in my home office.  I'm generally terrible at making "unnecessary" upgrades as I deem them so.
 
- Music, I still love it.  Linkin Park cover music has rekindled my enjoyment of their music.  I often think about whether or not my friends would be interested in doing some of their songs in an open mic setting and if I could be a part of it.  I can't do a Chester impression but I do think I could nail some Mike Shinoda verses.
 
- Running, I'm still doing it, though I had a setback with my calf about a month ago.  I have since made a full recovery and am back at it.  I am not going to hit the same numbers this month as I did last year in May, when I ran 100 miles.  Injury and the return to a more regular routine that includes lifting weights and other activities takes away the opportunities.  I do hope to run some races this year.  I just need to commit!  I'm not great at this.
 
- Yoga, I am currently enrolled in a 4 class series related to arm balances with [Jessica](https://sunlightyogini.com/?fbclid=IwAR3aHJ5NALTFgoxEgId8rf6bJEoV42KAc_lxuImirx-kOX6H6kss9K6zAxM "Jessica Sunshine Yoga") in her "Take Flight" series.  It'sIts a nice changeup from the one class I've been able to attend regularly since yoga reopened.  In the last year my home studio in Dover closed, and I've been going to the Portsmouth location on Wednesday nights.  As things reopen, I should be able to get into more classes and hopefully find more inspiration and time for these practices.  I do still consider going to teacher training, but I don't know who I would do it with.  It turns out that the teacher I was considering is selling her studio and moving to California, so that is out.
 
- Ocean jumping and nature, I've been jonesing for a hike.  Yesterday I did get in the ocean.  The temps were not as bad as I thought, and I'm really glad we did it.  It'sIts always a reset for me.
 
- Reading, I recently finished The Surrender Experiment by Michael Singer.  It was very enjoyable, as I didn't realize he got into software development.  It was pretty neat reading the story of a guy who is into meditation and crosses over into the realm of software development, as I felt some overlap in experience.
 
For now I suppose that is all.  
