---
layout: post
title:  "Clarity"
categories: [personal]
tags: []
---
{{ page.date | date: "%m/%d/%Y" }}
 
Clarity, we all seek it.  
Clarity, we find it in different ways.
Clarity, sometimes it finds us in moments we least expect.
 
Seeking clarity can be a painstaking task.  Often, one seeking clarity doesn't have clarity by necessity.  Experiencing the opaqueness of everyday life, endless inner voice chatter, and having no life direction are all symptoms of lacking clarity.  
 
When life is gray, we search for clarity.  We can go left or right, zig or zag, stay the course, or turn around.  We might look at how we got to where we are.  Maybe there was a different path we shoud have taken.  We question if it's too late to go back and start over.  We ask what the cost is of going backwards.  Is it better than pressing forward?  If we press forward will we simply make the same mistakes?  What happens if I don't make a decision?  Will it even matter?  Thoughts like this can be paralyzing.  
 
An emotionally intelligent person may have the self awareness to recognize that these paralyzing thoughts are simply thoughts drifting through our psyche.  Stepping back and observing the origin in the mind is the first step to getting out of our own way.  This simple act in itself breaks the pattern and changes us.  Searching for the origin of our thoughts may lead to noticing things going on in our body.  The heart is beating fast, breath is shortened, we notice a tightness in our shoulders or back, and maybe our face feels tense.  We can relax our face, release our shoulders, and we can deepen our breath to slow down our breathing.  These actions signal to our brain that we can relax, triggering the release of stress relieving hormones.  The opportunity to seek clarity approaches.
 
Clarity may find us in moments of loss.  Loss of a loved one has a way of lifting the shroud of everyday life.  A loss from death or loss of an important relationship will stop us in our tracks.  The initial reaction may be panic or shock.  Moments before the news of such a loss we are fine, focussed on things to come, or things that had previously happened in our routine lives.  It is even more likely that before panic or shock we stop and assess our emotional state and perhaps for a moment feel nothing.  After a few moments we begin to feel anxious, hurt, or lost.  The only clarity we have here is that something is wrong and we desperately want to fix the problem, but there is no going back.  The damage is done and pressing forward is the only option.  Often we are not ready.  We need time to heal.  We need time to seek clarity, to figure out which direction to go.  
 
Seeking clarity focuses us on what is truly important in our lives.  We consider our current feelings and how we want to feel going forward.  We assess what we have been doing to get to our current state and strive to be better.  We arrive at clarity when we reach an understanding that life is the journey.  That shock that brings us into the present is our moment of clarity.  We are truly alive in our being.  This is what we strive for.  This is our awakening.  Our experience is all we have.
